docs/1. Installation.md, before:

# HPU DataGrid Module - Installation
So you've decided to try the DataGrid module, awesome! Here are some pre requirements for a more enjoyable installation process. 

1. You have composer available
2. You are currently working on a ZF2 project with at least one Doctrine 2 Entity
3. You'll get extra credit if your DataSource contains actual data

## Installing

1. Run `composer require hpu/zf2-doctrine-datagrid` to add the DataGrid module to your composer.json
2. Enable the Datagrid Module in your ZF2 application by adding `Wms\Admin\DataGrid` to your application.config.php
3. Add configuration for your controller ([show details](#controller-configuration))
4. Call the Controller plugin in your controller ([show details](#calling-the-controller-plugin))
5. Echo the data using the DataGrid viewHelper ([show details](#using-the-viewhelper))

## Detailed installation
### Controller configuration
Sadly, we must help the DataGrid by telling it what Entity the data should be grabbed from. This is done through configuration.
In this example, we'll take the default [zend-skeleton-application](https://github.com/zendframework/ZendSkeletonApplication), which has an Application module, containing the following configuration:

File: `module/Application/config/module.config.php`

```php
<?php
    // Zend disclaimer
    namespace Application;
        
    return array(
        // Other configuration
        'controllers' => array(
                'invokables' => array(
                    'Application\Controller\Index' => Controller\IndexController::class
                ),
            ),
        // Other configuration
    );
```
            
We will need the Alias name of you controller, in this case: `Application\Controller\Index`. Now create a new file called datagrid.config.php so we can get to work

File: `module/Application/config/datagrid.config.php`

```php
<?php
    namespace Application;
    
    return array(
        'wms-datagrid' => array(
            'Application\Controller\Index' => array(
                'entityName' => 'YOUR\DOCTRINE\ENTITY\NAMESPACE',
                'defaultColumns' => array('id'),
            ),
        ),
    );
```
        
That's it! don't forget to include the configuration in your module.php's getConfig() method and edit the entityName to your Entity Namespace.
Of course  you can configure much more than this minimalistic array. To do so, [visit the usage and configuration manual](2. Usage and configuration.md)

### Calling the controller plugin
Just like the controller configuration example, we are using the [zend-skeleton-application](https://github.com/zendframework/ZendSkeletonApplication) as an example. 
The DataGrid uses an controller plugin to hook you up with the retrieved data. In your previous step, you've told the DataGrid what Entity Namespace should be used for the data retrieval.
We think you (as a developer) should be in control when or what data actually gets set into your template. So we've build an controller plugin to retrieve the DataGrid table data.
The only thing you need to do is pass this data back to your ViewModel.

To to so, change the default application controller like so:

File (after): `module/Application/src/Application/Controller/IndexController.php`

```php
<?php
    // Zend disclaimer
    namespace Application\Controller;
    
    use Zend\Mvc\Controller\AbstractActionController;
    use Zend\View\Model\ViewModel;
    
    /**
     * @method \Wms\Admin\DataGrid\Controller\Plugin\DataGridPlugin DataGridPlugin()
     */
    class IndexController extends AbstractActionController
    {
        public function indexAction()
        {
            return new ViewModel(array(
                'table' => $this->DataGridPlugin()->getTable($this->params()->fromQuery())
            ));
        }
    }
```

### Using the viewHelper
So we've setup the controller configuration and allowed data to be become available in our view.
The only thing that's left to do is converting the data into HTML. We've build a special viewHelper for this job. Go ahead! call it like this:

File: `module/Application/view/application/index/index.phtml`

```php
<?= $this->DataGridTable($table); ?>
```
    
Note that the $table variable is the named variable we've inserted into our ViewModel.

Optionally, the view helper will accept an array of table features you may want to enable / disable, things like searching, pagination etc.
[visit the usage and configuration manual](2. Usage and configuration.md) to learn more about this configuration.

## I still need help / there is something wrong

Errors can happen! feel free to create an issue. Be sure to include your configuration and your error message.

Commit message:

Updated docs with a notice that ordering table columns is now done by the defaultColumns configuration value

docs/1. Installation.md, after:

# HPU DataGrid Module - Installation
So you've decided to try the DataGrid module, awesome! Here are some pre requirements for a more enjoyable installation process. 

1. You have composer available
2. You are currently working on a ZF2 project with at least one Doctrine 2 Entity
3. You'll get extra credit if your DataSource contains actual data

## Installing

1. Run `composer require hpu/zf2-doctrine-datagrid` to add the DataGrid module to your composer.json
2. Enable the Datagrid Module in your ZF2 application by adding `Wms\Admin\DataGrid` to your application.config.php
3. Add configuration for your controller ([show details](#controller-configuration))
4. Call the Controller plugin in your controller ([show details](#calling-the-controller-plugin))
5. Echo the data using the DataGrid viewHelper ([show details](#using-the-viewhelper))

## Detailed installation
### Controller configuration
Sadly, we must help the DataGrid by telling it what Entity the data should be grabbed from. This is done through configuration.
In this example, we'll take the default [zend-skeleton-application](https://github.com/zendframework/ZendSkeletonApplication), which has an Application module, containing the following configuration:

File: `module/Application/config/module.config.php`

```php
<?php
    // Zend disclaimer
    namespace Application;
        
    return array(
        // Other configuration
        'controllers' => array(
                'invokables' => array(
                    'Application\Controller\Index' => Controller\IndexController::class
                ),
            ),
        // Other configuration
    );
```
            
We will need the Alias name of you controller, in this case: `Application\Controller\Index`. Now create a new file called datagrid.config.php so we can get to work

File: `module/Application/config/datagrid.config.php`

```php
<?php
    namespace Application;
    
    return array(
        'wms-datagrid' => array(
            'Application\Controller\Index' => array(
                'entityName' => 'YOUR\DOCTRINE\ENTITY\NAMESPACE',
                'defaultColumns' => array('id'),
            ),
        ),
    );
```
        
The above array is the bare minimum configuration that is required to use the DataGrid.
There are a few things to note here:

 - Do not forget to load this configuration array on your your module.php's getConfig() method.
 - Change the entityName value to the namespace of your Doctrine Entity Model.
 - The defaultColumns is also required, the order of the array values in defaultColumns will be used to order the initial html table.
 - You can add a lot of extra configuration on how the DataGrid should behave. To do so, please [visit the usage and configuration manual](2. Usage and configuration.md) after initial setup.


### Calling the controller plugin
Just like the controller configuration example, we are using the [zend-skeleton-application](https://github.com/zendframework/ZendSkeletonApplication) as an example. 
The DataGrid uses an controller plugin to hook you up with the retrieved data. In your previous step, you've told the DataGrid what Entity Namespace should be used for the data retrieval.
We think you (as a developer) should be in control when or what data actually gets set into your template. So we've build an controller plugin to retrieve the DataGrid table data.
The only thing you need to do is pass this data back to your ViewModel.

To to so, change the default application controller like so:

File (after): `module/Application/src/Application/Controller/IndexController.php`

```php
<?php
    // Zend disclaimer
    namespace Application\Controller;
    
    use Zend\Mvc\Controller\AbstractActionController;
    use Zend\View\Model\ViewModel;
    
    /**
     * @method \Wms\Admin\DataGrid\Controller\Plugin\DataGridPlugin DataGridPlugin()
     */
    class IndexController extends AbstractActionController
    {
        public function indexAction()
        {
            return new ViewModel(array(
                'table' => $this->DataGridPlugin()->getTable($this->params()->fromQuery())
            ));
        }
    }
```

### Using the viewHelper
So we've setup the controller configuration and allowed data to be become available in our view.
The only thing that's left to do is converting the data into HTML. We've build a special viewHelper for this job. Go ahead! call it like this:

File: `module/Application/view/application/index/index.phtml`

```php
<?= $this->DataGridTable($table); ?>
```
    
Note that the $table variable is the named variable we've inserted into our ViewModel.

Optionally, the view helper will accept an array of table features you may want to enable / disable, things like searching, pagination etc.
[visit the usage and configuration manual](2. Usage and configuration.md) to learn more about this configuration.

## I still need help / there is something wrong

Errors can happen! feel free to create an issue. Be sure to include your configuration and your error message.
